On 08 October 2008 Maritime officials and associates of the Somali pirates who on 25 September 2008 hijacked a Ukrainian freighter carrying a large cargo of arms stated that the pirates may soon be collecting their ransom. After difficult negotiations likened by several people involved to bazaar style haggling the parties are close to reaching a deal in which the pirates would be paid millions of dollars and the ship freed. A businessman in xarardheere Somalia named Ahmed Omar stated that the pirates and the ship owners have agreed on a ransom of approximately 8 million U.S. dollars and the ship may be freed on 08 October 2008 or 09 October 2008. Xarardheere is a notorious pirate base on the coast of Somalia. Maritime officials in Kenya stated that critical details have yet to be agreed upon. One such detail involves the pirates request for a guarantee that they would not be arrested or attacked by the armada of American warships currently encircling them. A Kenyan maritime official stated anonymously that such negotiations are complex and involve more than the financial aspect. On 08 October 2008 the official stated that progress is being made and the parties are approaching an agreement. The pirates initially requested 35 million U.S. dollars and then reduced their request to 20 million U.S. dollars. The pirates have consistently expressed willingness to negotiate the financial figures. More than 25 ships have been hijacked in 2008 off the Somalia coast with a typical ransom of between 1 and 2 million U.S. dollars. The pirates aboard the Ukrainian ship have stated that upon receipt of payment in American dollars and preferably in 100 dollar bills the ship its cargo and the 20 sailors on board will be released. The original country of destination for the arms shipment aboard the Ukrainian ship is being questioned. Shortly after the freighter was hijacked on 25 September 2008 the Kenyan government claimed that the weapons on board were being shipped for Kenya 's military. The ship was en route to Kenya 's main port of Mombasa. The weapons on board the ship included 33 T 72 tanks 150 grenade launchers 6 anti aircraft guns and a large quantity of ammunition. Evidence has subsequently emerged that the weapons were part of a clandestine arms deal between Kenya and the separatist region of southern Sudan. The deal would most likely have remained secret had the pirates not hijacked the ship and begun speaking to the media by satellite phone. Ukrainian officials have been adamant in denying any wrongdoing. Ukrainian diplomat in Kenya oleh belokolos stated. Ukraine does not supply or have plans to supply any armaments to the Government of South Sudan. All the appropriate paperwork has been validated. Ukraine abides by all United Nations rules and arms control agreements. Ukraine inherited enormous stockpiles of weaponry after the collapse of the Soviet Union and is now a major arms dealer. The deal with Ukraine is considered suspicious given that Kenya has mostly relied on the United Kingdom and other western countries for its supply of heavy weapons. Kenyan politicians were demanding answers and have called for several commissions to examine the situation. Southern Sudan is an autonomous region that is currently increasing its military and that uses Soviet designed tanks. The American military stated that its priority is to ensure that the weapons were not unloaded from the ship and sold to Islamist insurgents in Somalia. The pirates have denied interest in the weapons and claimed to have been unaware that the cargo included tanks when they hijacked the ship. Pirate spokesman sugule Ali stated in an interview last week that the pirates sole interest in the deal is money. 