Israeli officials convinced a key group of nations engaged in nuclear trade to adopt new guidelines allowing the international transfer of nuclear technology to States that have not signed on to nonproliferation rules. Countries including India Israel and Pakistan that have not signed the nuclear Non Proliferation Treaty are prohibited from participating in international nuclear trade which includes purchasing reactors uranium fuel or yellowcake. Documents outlining the Israeli proposal were distributed to the 45 member Nuclear Suppliers Group NSG in March 2007. The Israeli presentation was made in a nonpaper that allows for official deniability. According to a letter from the Chairman of the NSG on 17 March 2007 the Israeli presentation was offered in the context of the NSG 's debate over Indian officials bid for an exemption. Among the nations that have not signed the Treaty only India and Israel would qualify for admission to the NSG under the Israeli proposal. The Israeli plan offered 12 criteria for allowing nuclear trade with non treaty states. 1 criterion indicated Israel 's status as an undeclared nuclear weapons state and said a State should be allowed to engage in nuclear trade if the State applies stringent physical protection control and accountancy measures to all nuclear weapons nuclear facilities source material and special nuclear material in the State 's territory. The documents circulated on Capitol Hill in September 2007 as the Bush administration worked toward an agreement with Indian officials. Executive Director of the Arms Control Association in Washington Daryl Kimball stated the Israeli document could affect the debate over India. Kimball stated. The dynamics at the NSG are that officials from the countries do not want to be obstacles to India which is the largest country and the United States which is the most powerful country. Consensus on India will be difficult to reach when the NSG meets in November 2007. Israel 's proposal gives officials from some countries reason to suggest an alternative approach to a specific exemption. Israel 's record is good and better than India 's in following international nuclear rules. Despite ties between Israeli and U.S. governments the Bush Administration rejected the Israeli proposal. The proposal may complicate the Bush administration 's efforts to win an exemption for India to engage in nuclear trade. President Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice view the Pact as an important part of the Bush administration 's foreign policy legacy. The deal is controversial in India and Congress must give approval. Delays in winning approval for the India deal could have a negative effect on the administration 's foreign policy legacy with delay until an election year having the most negative effect. State Department spokesman Tom Casey stated the U.S. government views the India deal as unique and does not see the deal as a precedent for any other country including Israel. Spokesman for the Israeli embassy David Siegel stated the suggestion that the Israeli government is demanding an exemption or linking efforts to any other issue including the India debate is grossly inaccurate. Seigel stated. The Israeli government has never asked the NSG for any exemption to nuclear supply guidelines or made any Israeli specific request of the NSG. Israel is recognized as a full fledged adherent to the NSG Guidelines. The Israeli government has urged the NSG to consider adopting a generic multi tiered criteria based approach towards nuclear technology transfers. Some officials from NSG countries have previously suggested an approach like the Israeli plan. If modification of the NSG Guidelines were to take place along the lines proposed by Israeli officials the nuclear nonproliferation regime would be considerably enhanced. 