On 081114 diplomats stated to the media that American European Russian and Chinese officials at a meeting on 081113 in Paris did not reach agreement on further actions to persuade Iran to halt uranium enrichment at Iran 's facility in Natanz. Uranium enrichment is a highly technical process that can produce fuel for a nuclear power plant or fissile material for atomic weapons. The 081113 meeting ended without any new measures to announce. After the 081113 meeting the French foreign ministry released a statement declaring the international community had reaffirmed the importance of the dual track approach of engaging diplomatically with Iran and working towards sanctions. Russia and China have resisted new sanctions against Iran. Russia and China have close political and business ties with Iran and feel no domestic pressure to act against the Islamic Republic of Iran. The United States does not have close political and business ties with Iran and feels domestic pressure to act against the Islamic Republic of Iran. Russia and China hold veto power over Security Council decisions. Moscow 's Interfax news agency quoted Russian diplomat Sergei ryabkov as stating that the parties struck no deal on sanctions against Iran at the 081113 meeting and that the Western countries are in favor of the sanctions against Iran while China and Russia did not support sanctions against Iran. Sergei ryabkov attended the 081113 meeting. A report released this week says Iran has made significant progress at Iran 's heavy water research reactor facility near the city of Arak. Iran 's heavy water research reactor near Arak could eventually produce plutonium that might be used in a nuclear weapon. Satellite images published by the Institute for Science and International Security show construction at the heavy water research reactor facility near the city of Arak has progressed significantly between 080200 and 081000. David Albright stated that Iran 's heavy water research reactor near Arak has evaded the international security community 's notice. David Albright stated that Iran 's heavy water research reactor near Arak is making significant progress according to the satellite images and that in a year and a half the heavy water research reactor near Arak has progressed from building frames to a largely finished facility. David Albright is a former arms inspector and Director of the Institute for Science and International Security that is based in Washington D.C.. Iran stated that Iran is pursuing nuclear technology to produce energy and conduct research. The United States and its western allies suspect that Iran 's efforts to produce is a precursor to creating a nuclear weapons infrastructure. Low grade uranium production is legal under international arms control regulations. The latest developments in Iran 's nuclear technology development show the complex diplomatic and technical challenges facing the incoming foreign policy team of United States President elect Barack Obama when it takes on the task of stopping Iran from mastering technology that could be used to manufacture and deliver nuclear weapons. The administration of United States President George W. Bush in its last months in power has managed to synchronize United States policies with the European Union British French and German leaders to press for tougher sanctions and diplomatic action against Iran. The International Atomic Energy Agency is expected to release a report critical of Iran next week. The International Atomic Energy Agency is the United Nations 's nuclear watchdog agency. Due to the Act that no new initiatives regarding Iran 's nuclear program emerged from the 081113 Paris talks the hopes of imposing another set of United Nations Security Council sanctions before the end of President Bush 's term were decreasing. While diplomatic maneuvering is taking place Iran continues to work towards mastering nuclear and missile technology. Some Israeli officials have stated their alarm about Iran 's test firing this week of a solid fuel two stage rocket with a range of 1200 miles. The city of Tel Aviv is fewer than 650 miles from Iranian territory. 