Chinese Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan stated on 23 November 2002 that the member States of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization SCO have progressed in the construction of the Organization and the cooperation among member nations. Tang and 5 foreign ministers from Russia Kazakhstan Kyrgyzstan Tajikistan and Uzbekistan will meet in Moscow on 23 November 2002 for discussions of the SCO 's construction and a series of international and regional issues. Tang stated that mechanism construction is the current focus for SCO and that preparation work for creating a secretariat had entered a key stage under the joint efforts of coordinators and experts from the 6 countries. Tang also stated the Chinese government seeks to complete the drafting of relevant documents before next year 's SCO summit and to attempt to officially open the secretariat after the summit. Tang stated the SCO still faces a very stern anti terrorism fight and cited the October 2002 hostage crisis in Moscow. Tang stated the fact that the terrorist attack in Moscow was masterminded by national separatists and regional extremists demonstrated the necessity and correctness of efforts in reducing the 3 forces of terrorism separatism and extremism. Tang stated that all SCO members should deepen and expand security cooperation by adopting deals on jointly fighting against the 3 forces and terrorist organizations and by creating a regional anti terrorist organization in Kyrgyz capital Bishkek as soon as possible. Tang stated that the Chinese government appreciated and supported some Central Asian countries proposals on enhancing anti drug cooperation. Tang stated that the Chinese Government signed multilateral anti drug cooperation pact. Tang stated anti drug measures as one of the top tasks of regional anti terrorist organizations. Tang stated that economic cooperation is a key area for cooperation between the SCO members stating. To gain substantial benefits from economic and trade cooperation all Member States should strengthen political common sense over economic and trade cooperation and regard economic and trade cooperation as a strategic problem that could affect regional security and the SCO 's development. Tang also referenced a volatile world situation and stated that the common and pressing task of all SCO members is to manage threats from untraditional security spheres including terrorism drug trafficking weapons smuggle transnational monetary crimes. Tang stated that peace and development still dominate the current age as the general situation of the world is stable and the economy is developing forward in waves. Tang stated that the international community was watching the organization closely as more countries and international organizations were willing to conduct dialogues and cooperation with the SCO. Tang stated that the SCO should further enhance the exchange and cooperation with other parties through wider visibility and a more positive post which may not only strengthen SCO 's international influence but also reflect SCO 's principles of no alignment not against a third party and opening up. Tang stated that the SCO will pass a temporary pact on SCO 's foreign policies at the meeting on 23 November 2002. Tang stated that the pact will officially start the SCO 's exchange activities with other organizations and promote the Shanghai spirit of mutual trust and benefit equality cooperation multicultural respect and the search for common development. 