Recently the Hong Kong police have smashed a transnational theft syndicate a cross boundary criminal syndicate and a local triad gang specializing in exploiting youngsters to commit various crimes. The Oriental Daily News opined that the recent Hong Kong police efforts to cut down 5 of the so called Triad branch leaders or district team leaders within a short 3 week period demonstrates the police 's determination to eradicate criminal activities. The Hong Kong police recently has been working closely with the Guangdong Public Security Bureau for exchange of intelligence and has carried out a series of raids and operations. During 020718-020724 the Hong Kong police cracked down on triad activities including drug trafficking illegal arms possession theft burglary and robbery the selling of pirated and obscene recordings dutiable cigarettes and trafficking in dangerous drugs. On 020724 the police dispatched over 100 staff reportedly stormed a propitiation dance and wine party organized to settle some disputes by 2 triad groups at a disco nightclub in mongkok Kowloon. The police eventually arrested 3 branch leaders and 14 core Triad members. Police sources confirmed to the Xinhua New Agency on 020725 that all 17 arrested are still being detailed for questioning. Hong Kong police sources were quoted as saying that the success of the operation in netting all 17 was the result of the police 's effort to infiltrate into the relevant gangs here. Police sources also intimated that more crackdowns by the Hong Kong Police on other Triad gangs will follow. The Hong Kong police 's effort in fighting organized criminals involves actively cooperating with police on the Chinese mainland and in other regions. The first so called targeting Conference of the International Drug Enforcement Conference IDEC far east region was held in Hong Kong earlier in 020700. Hong Kong was chosen to host the event following the decision of the IDEC meeting held in Bolivia in 020200. Some 42 senior anti narcotics officers from the Chinese mainland Hong Kong Australia Indonesia Japan South Korea Myanmar the Philippines Singapore Thailand and the United States met. The Hong Kong police 's internal news letter recently reported that the conference aimed to provide a flexible and forward thinking environment for sharing information and taking positive action against the organized criminals of transnational drug trafficking. The Hong Kong police 's exchange of intelligence with the police on the Chinese mainland has been particularly intense. An 11 member delegation from mainland China 's National Narcotics Control Commission visited Hong Kong recently to study how the police here enforce their anti narcotics laws. The 11 person team was chaired by the Deputy Director of Bureau of narcotics control of the Chinese Ministry of Public Security Chen cunyi and was briefed by the Hong Kong Police as led by Hong Kong 's head of narcotics bureau Ip Lau Chuen on enforced actions carried out in Hong Kong. The Hong Kong police and China 's National Narcotics Control Commission also exchanged mutual concerns and discussed a number of issues which included investigations to counter drug trafficking and money laundering activities. The mainland party closed their visit after meeting with Hong Kong 's deputy assistant commissioner for crime Yam TAT wing and held discussions on a proposal to further cooperate in combating cross boundary drug trafficking activities. 