China and Kyrgyzstan agreed in a joint communique that terrorism separatism and extremism still pose major threats to regional security and stability. The communique was signed by visiting Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao and his Kyrgyz counterpart Nikolai Tanayev on 040922. The communique said China and Kyrgyzstan will strengthen coordination and cooperation among the relevant authorities in accordance with the Shanghai Convention on Combating Terrorism separatism and extremism and the China Kyrgyzstan Agreement on cooperation in combating terrorism separatism and extremism. The communique added that China and Kyrgyzstan will continue to adopt strong measures within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization SCO in jointly fighting all forms of terrorism in order to maintain peace and tranquillity in China and Kyrgyzstan and in the region as a whole. China and Kyrgyzstan agree that the crackdown on the terrorist force of Eastern Turkistan is a major part of the international anti terrorism campaign. The so called Eastern Turkistan terrorist group comprises a number of secession minded terrorist cells. The communique said that China and Kyrgyzstan agree to promote consultations and cooperation on issues of common concern within the framework of the United Nations and other international organizations. China and Kyrgyzstan said in the communique that peace stability and a just and rational world political and economic order should be established on the basis of the UN Charter and norms and principles of international law. China and Kyrgyzstan also agree that international disputes should be solved by peaceful means and the United Nations should play a leading role in safeguarding peace and security in the world and efforts should be made to diversify modes of development. China and Kyrgyzstan further agree in the communique that the Shanghai Cooperation Organization 's purposes and principles conform to reality and the development trend and the SCO 's activities are conducive to regional peace and stability. The communique said China and Kyrgyzstan are willing to work together with other members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and take effective measures in fighting terrorism separatism extremism drug trafficking illegal immigration and cross border crimes. The communique said China and Kyrgyzstan are also ready to expand cooperation in economy and other fields with other SCO members promote the relations between the SCO and other countries and international organizations and strengthen the SCO 's role in maintaining regional and global peace and development. 