Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez 's weapons deals with Russia curbs on military cooperation with the United States and plans to train as many as 2 million Venezuelan civilians to repel a possible invasion by imperialist superpowers have the United States and Chavez 's domestic critics worried about what the leftist former military officer is planning. Chavez insists that the moves are purely defensive and born of an overdue need to update obsolete military hardware and protect Venezuela from nations that might want to take control of Venezuela. Venezuela is South America 's largest petroleum producing state. Chavez 's domestic opponents scoff at the idea that the US would ever invade Venezuela and charge that Chavez 's true intention is to arm a huge cadre of loyal reservists who would protect Chavez against any internal uprising and to pose as a militarized counterweight to US influence in Latin America. Cuban leader Fidel Castro is Chavez 's his major ally and Chavez is growing closer to Castro. Chavez 's detractors in the US government say that it is even more troubling that Chavez 's arms purchases and indoctrination of civilian militias could be part of a strategy to restructure Venezuelan democracy in the image of Cuban style militarized socialism and foment leftist revolutions throughout South America. US military strategists say they are increasingly concerned that radical movements inspired by Chavez could foment such revolution. The political mainstream in Latin America has shifted leftward since the late 1990s. This leftward shift is largely in reaction to the perceived failure of free market economics. Leftists have been elected to lead Brazil Argentina Chile Uruguay Ecuador and Venezuela. Chavez 's supporters at home counter that the United States has a century long history of open as well as covert armed intervention in Latin America 's domestic politics and say that it has no right to question Venezuela 's defense preparations. Carlos Roque Espinoza Leon said that Venezuelans never ask what the US Marines are doing. Espinoza Leon is a pro Chavez defense specialist who serves in Venezuela 's National Assembly. Espinoza said that Peru has 500000 rifles and no one says anything. Espinoza said no one complains that Colombia is the most militarized country in Latin America. Espinoza said US history is full of aggression in Latin America. Espinoza said Venezuelans have to do whatever is necessary to protect Venezuela. Chavez has famously said that the Venezuelan so called Bolivarian revolution is peaceful but not unarmed. Chavez was first elected in 980000 and has a popularity rating of 71 percent in an independent poll by polling firm Datanalisis. Venezuelan military analyst Alberto Garrido said Chavez is looking for allies in Russia China and Iran in order to promote a multi polar world which will counteract US dominance and encourage grassroots Movements in Latin America to throw off US governmental influence. Lorenzo Campos is a farmer in Anzoategui state in northern Venezuela and is training as a reservist. Campos said Venezuelans want the world to know that Venezuelans are not preparing to attack anyone and that the mission is to protect Venezuela. In May Chavez 's government announced details in 050500 of an 18.6 million deal with a Russian firm to purchase 100000 AK 103 assault rifles with 30 rounds of ammunition each and the technology transfer for Venezuela to manufacture the rifles. The deal works out to 186.22 per rifle. This price is considerably less costly than the US mail order price of 825 to 850 for the same weapon. The Government of Venezuela also intends to buy 10 Russian helicopters 10 Spanish transport planes and 6 Spanish naval craft. Venezuelan officials say the government is negotiating with Brazil to buy around 24 air support and training planes. Chavez has insisted and even his staunchest retired military Critics here agree that the purchases are essential to update old weaponry such as the military 's decades old Belgian FAL rifles. Retired General Fernando OCHOA ANTICH said that it is an exaggeration to say Chavez is engaged in an arms buildup. Ochoa was defense minister in 920000 when then Lieutenant Colonel Chavez launched a failed coup. Ochoa stated that Venezuela has n't purchased arms in 25 years and said and Chavez is not aggressively buying weapons in a way that would threaten his neighbors. Ochoa said Venezuela has never bought Russian arms before and suggested Chavez is doing it to become independent from the US. Ochoa asked why Chavez is buying a caliber of rifle which is popular among subversive forces in Latin America and stated that the political support Chavez gives to radical leftist movements makes Chavez a continental menace. The US Pentagon has openly questioned what Chavez will do with the old FAL rifles and whether Chavez might share weapons or ammunition with guerrilla forces in Latin America. The US government has provided no evidence of Chavez arming or funding leftist insurgencies. Military analysts and specialists on the Colombian FARC guerrillas say the rebels have plenty of money for weapons from drug trafficking and would not be interested in old Belgian rifles or in assistance from Chavez. A 030000 study published by the US Defense Intelligence Agency reported that more than half of the weapons seized from Colombian guerrillas from 980000 to 010000 that had markings of foreign militaries were of Venezuelan origin. The implication was that corrupt or sympathetic members of the Venezuelan military may be aiding guerrillas. Perhaps more distressing to Chavez 's domestic opponents is the ideological training that critics say Chavez has in mind for the military and for new civilian reservists. Chavez called earlier in 050000 for so called Revolutionary units to start preparing the public to resist a superpower aggressor and said the first step would be to train from 100000 to 2 million volunteers in the coming years to back up active duty armed forces. Military analysts estimate Venezuela 's active duty armed forces number 83,000. People 's defense units would be created in neighborhoods State companies and the Free University established under Chavez and would report directly to the president. The government insists the reserves will support the armed forces and not act as a fifth column against a possible anti Chavez coup. Espinoza said the reserves are not to be used as shock troops for any political party and that if there were a civil war it would be up to each person to take their own side. General Julio Ramon Quintero viloria is commander of the reserves. Quintero said in an interview that the armed forces hope to train 50000 civilians over 20 weekends in the second half of 050000 and could train 300000 more in 060000. Quintero said that Venezuelans do n't want to be the colony of any empire and have to be ready for any possibility. 100000 reservists in 050600 engaged with the Venezuelan navy in a massive war game to repel a stronger country that had invaded. 40 employees of the state oil company participated in a similar exercise with 1200 soldiers in 050600. Pro Chavez circles here warn of asymmetrical warfare. Asymmetrical warfare is a term coined by US military strategists to describe a conflict between unequal combatants where the weaker side employs guerrilla tactics. The US government has given 3.3 billion in mostly military aid to Colombia in the past 5 years. Chavez loyalists fear that the US government could instigate a proxy war between Colombia and Venezuela as a way to oust Chavez and control Venezuelan oil. A senior US official in an interview dismissed the notion that the United States Government wants to invade Venezuela as complete and utter nonsense. The official said the chavista side wishes to make the relationship negative because they 've made a political calculation that Mr. Chavez reached power by constantly being in confrontation with the US. Another development that has troubled the United States is Chavez 's rollback of military cooperation and joint exercises. The US military had a Cooperation Office for 50 years in a Venezuelan Fort. Chavez shut it down in 040000. 5 US military trainers and students participating in an exchange program were ordered to leave the country in 050400. Analysts say that it is likely Chavez is trying to indoctrinate his public and armed forces. Analysts say that there is no proof that Chavez will use those forces to aid leftist revolutions elsewhere. 