A large repository of anthrax plague and other deadly bacteria stored in a high security Russian laboratory complex 100 miles south of Moscow is facing the threat of loosing electricity. An official from the Moscow region 's mosenergo electric utility arrived recently at the Russian laboratory complex and threatened to turn off the electricity for lack of payment. The Russian laboratory complex is a 90 building campus and served as the location for Russia 's secret biological weapons program in the Soviet era. An incorrect headline in the newspaper Izvestia stated that deadly viruses from a Moscow regional depository threaten Moscow. There are no viruses at the State Scientific Center of applied Microbiology in obolensk. At the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology there is every kind of deadly bacteria that was studied for use in the secret biological weapons program of the Soviet Union. A large virus repository is located in Siberia. Both Russian and Western officials have stated that it is unlikely that any public health threat would result from a power cutoff at the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology. Russian and Western officials have stated that there is enough uncertainty that they could not be positive a loss of power at the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology would not cause a public health threat. General Nikolai N. Urakov stated by telephone that the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology has quite reliable systems of protection in case of emergency. General Nikolai N. Urakov is the longtime director of the the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology. The State scientific center of applied microbiology has been working with Western scientists to convert the complex into a biomedical manufacturing site. General Nikolai N. Urakov stated by telephone that the people at the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology are scared by this threat of a sudden shutdown of electricity because it is a kind of psychological pressure on the people at the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology. General Nikolai N. Urakov stated by telephone that in the event of a power shutdown at the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology scientists must destroy all bacteriological experiments under way. General Nikolai N. Urakov would like the United States and Western countries that have contributed about 6 million United States dollars to the transformation of the former bioweapons complex to contribute another 500000 United States dollars per year to pay the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology 's electric bills and arrears. An American scientist who works closely with the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology stated that the Russian government was responsible for paying for the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology 's electric bills. Western aid for conversion of General Nikolai N. Urakov 's one time bioweapons laboratory peaked in 970000 because it was learned that Iran had made offers to the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology to purchase its expertise. Russian scientists and military leaders who now depend on Western financing to destroy nuclear chemical and biological weapons have been known to orchestrate a sense of crisis to increase financing. American scientist Randall Lee Beatty is working on the conversion of the State Scientific Center of applied Microbiology in obolensk. Beatty stated that this threat to cut electricity to the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology is a crisis. Randall Lee Beatty is a Director of the International Science and Technology Center. The International Science and Technology Center finances approximately half of General Nikolai N. Urakov 's budget to support about 350 Russian biowarfare scientists and technicians. Randall Lee Beatty stated that it is known that the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology has not paid its electricity bill for 14 months. Randall Lee Beatty stated that the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology is one of the important archives for dangerous pathogens in the world and it would be a shame if those archives were destroyed for not paying the electricity utility. Approximately 3000 strains of bacteria are stored at the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology and many of the bacteria are stored in cryogenic casks cooled with liquid nitrogen and isolated from the environment by layered enclosures and oversize air handling systems that all depend on electricity to function. The greatest danger from a shutdown of electric power at the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology would be the defrosting of live germs that are currently preserved in a frozen state. A biological warfare expert at the Monterey Institute of International Studies named Raymond zilinskas stated that the main threat from cutting power to the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology would be to the organisms themselves rather than that they might escape. Raymond zilinskas stated that in the worst case the bacteria would be defrosted from minus 70 degrees and it would be a real mess to clean up afterward because it would not be known for certain whether all the bacteria was dead. The confrontation between the mosenergo electric utility and the State Scientific Center of applied Microbiology in obolensk is another example of how the basic capitalist imperative for enterprises to be self sustaining can clash in a dangerous way with the old remnants of Soviet weapons science. Due to an overdue power bill in 000000 the Russian National Power Company cut off electricity to a strategic base where nuclear missiles stood on high alert. The nuclear missile silos themselves did not lose power. Armed troops marched to the substations and turned the power back on. In 010100 and 010200 the national utility United energy systems cut power to a number of military installations around Russia. The military installations that lost power included the Russian space forces monitoring center on the Kamchatka Peninsula. In most cases of military installations having their electricity cut off the electricity has been quickly restored. Often investigations show that the tug of war with the utility forces the military to spend budgeted funds for electrical power instead of diverting money for other uses. Some of the budgeted funds cut at times have included the building country residences for generals. 