In 2004 Hong Kong tertiary institutes actively contributed to improved relations between Hong Kong and mainland China in the research and development of high technology. Hong Kong universities have collaborated with tertiary education business and government sectors of mainland China to direct training programs and research centers to promote research commercialization and technology transfer. In June 2004 Hong Kong Polytechnic University PolyU joined national university science and technology park of the Virtual University Park in Shenzhen China becoming the first tertiary institution of Hong Kong to establish research centers and training facilities in mainland China. President of PolyU Poon Chung kwong stated that both public and private sectors in Hong Kong are strengthening connections with mainland China in various areas. Poon stated that cooperation between Hong Kong and mainland China will facilitate universities to more effectively promote technology transfer and human resources development in the mainland creating positive results for both Hong Kong and China. City University of Hong Kong CityU and the University of Science and Technology of China USTC in Anhui province signed an agreement in June to jointly establish a high level joint research center in Suzhou. The University of Science and Technology of China is a university established by the Chinese Academy of Sciences CAS. The agreement is based on the principle of mutually beneficial collaboration in which both universities complement each other 's strengths in working together on joint research projects supervision and teaching of research students and in administering professional training opportunities. In addition to partnering with education institutes Hong Kong universities have also joined large scale high technology exchange programs in mainland China in order to enhance communication between the mainland and Hong Kong in the discipline. The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology HKUST demonstrated its latest achievements in research and development at the 6th annual China Hi Tech Fair CHTF held in Shenzhen in October 2004. HKUST demonstrated more than 30 new technologies and products covering a wide range of technologies including nanotechnology multimedia logistics and RFID technology advanced manufacturing and biotechnology. HKUST also collaborated with a prominent mainland manufacturer on the development of a nanomaterial based high capacity lithium battery. This collaboration is the most recent in a series of successful technology transfer agreements reached by HKUST. HKUST President Paul Ching Wu Chu stated. HKUST is increasing funding to research new technologies required by industry in the Pearl River Delta. The University will continue to leverage its extensive relationships with international research institutions and multi national corporations to enhance the development of advanced technologies which can find immediate practical application in China. 