20080726 Iranian President Mahmoud ahmadinejad stated to scholars in the northeastern city of mashbad that Iran had expanded its arsenal of centrifuges producing enriched uranium to over 5000. The statement was ahmadinejad 's first asserting an expansion since the 20080400 announcement that Iran was approaching the implementation of 6000 centrifuges. Iran articulated the goal of 50000 centrifuges operating at the enrichment plant near the town of Natanz. The international community has demanded that Iran halt the production of nuclear material. Media reports differed on the number of centrifuges ahmadinejad cited. An Iranian news agency reported that ahmadinejad stated Iran had 6000 working centrifuges but the agency subsequently removed the statement from the Internet. Another Iranian news agency stated that ahmadinejad referred to 100000s of centrifuges. Experts discounted the significance of ahmadinejad 's claim in the absence of information on the centrifuges functionality. A Western diplomat in Tehran speaking under condition of anonymity stated that the quantity of centrifuges is less important than whether the machines are operational and efficient but that ahmadinejad 's assertion will hinder a resolution of the diplomatic standoff between Iran and the West. Arms control expert Jeffrey G. Lewis of the new America Foundation think tank stated that the Foundation was aware of Iran 's goal of assembling 6000 centrifuges but the operational status of the machines is unknown. Diplomats and arms control experts stated that the Iranian enrichment program is hindered by technical problems. Iran has repeatedly asserted that its nuclear program aims to produce only electricity because nuclear weapon production contradicts Islamic principles. The US Israel Europe and the majority of Western arms control experts believe that Iran is pursuing the capability to produce bombs immediately in the event of a decision. Experts stated that producing weapons grade uranium from reactor grade material is relatively simple. Ahmadinejad stated that after Iran resisted the West 's demands for a halt in nuclear activities the West still pursued the resumption of negotiations. EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana recently presented Iran with 2 offers. A US endorsed package of incentives to cease enriched uranium production. A 6 week pre negotiation freeze for freeze period during which Iran would add no centrifuges and the West would refrain from promoting a 4th round of economic sanctions against Iran at the UN Security Council. US officials repeatedly stated that no negotiations can begin before Iran verifiably halts all enrichment related activities but the Bush administration recently agreed to the freeze for freeze proposal and dispatch burns to Geneva. 20080726 during talks in Geneva attended by US Undersecretary of State William J. Burns Iran refused to respond to Solana 's offers. The talks constituted the highest level diplomatic contact between the US and Iran for nearly 30 years. Solana burns and European envoys set a deadline for Iran to respond positively before initiating new sanctions including prohibitions on selling Iran refined petroleum products vital to the country 's economy. Iranian officials refused to commit to stopping expansion or to observe the deadline. 20080726 ahmadinejad appeared to suggest that Iran might potentially halt expansion at a higher number of centrifuges that previously expected and for over 6 weeks. Ahmadinejad stated that the West had consented to the existing 5000-6000 centrifuges in operation provided that the number did not increase. 5000 centrifuges can produce sufficient nuclear material for a power plant or an atomic bomb if the material is highly enriched. 6000 centrifuges running continuously can produce sufficient weapons grade uranium for 1 bomb in 6 months. 20080500 the International Atomic Energy Agency stated that Iran possessed 3500 centrifuges in operations. 