Brazil announced that the air force will begin shooting down aircraft used in trafficking illegal drugs in Brazilian airspace. The plan requires 8 precautionary steps before the order to shoot down a plane may be issued. Prior to the policy taking effect late 20041000 a publicity campaign will notify ranchers and others of the need to file flight plans. The Law to permit such an action was originally approved in 1998 but 1995-2003 President Fernando Henrique Cardoso never put the policy into effect. The United States dissuaded Cardoso from signing the decree out of concern that the accidental downing of civilian aircraft could expose the US government and companies to lawsuits. 20010400 the United States reduced previous support for operations targeting drug running aircraft when a Peruvian jet shot down a small plane misidentified as a drug carrier and killed an American missionary and her child. Relatives of the victims sued the US government and won a settlement due to the Government 's provision of intelligence and technical support to the operation. A US State Department official stated. US law may forbid assistance to countries that implement shoot down laws under certain conditions. The US agrees with the Brazilian assessment that the threat posed by drug traffickers is both very serious and increasing. The US government has consulted the Brazilian Government about the provisions of US law. Brazilian Defense Minister Jose Viegas stated that Brazil has encountered difficulties in securing US support for the plan but recent bilateral talks led to certainty that the decree would be accepted by the US government without exposing Brazil to commercial sanctions. Brazilian officials have expressed hope that the policy will be endorsed by the US before going into effect. The US is scheduled to provide 10.2 million dollars in drug and law enforcement aid to Brazil in 2004. Former air force chief and current Director of the Air Institute at estacio de sa University in Rio de Janeiro General Mauro Jose Miranda gandra stated that the measure was a courageous step by the Government but the impact may be more political than practical because of self imposed restrictions by the Brazilian government. Brazilian officials stated that the policy would be inapplicable against aircraft with children on board. Viegas stated that the limitation was necessary. Gandra stated that the provision undermines the decree 's essential purpose by granting immunity to drug smuggling aircraft carrying children and thus introducing the possibility of kidnapped children being used as human shields. Viegas stated in an interview in Brasilia that the government will use the law to more powerfully dissuade drug traffickers who have previously entered Brazilian airspace feeling unthreatened by the air force. The Government was prompted to act due to the deteriorating public security situation with increasingly powerful and violent drug gangs in Sao Paolo and particularly Rio de Janeiro. Rio de Janeiro drug gangs have more firepower than the police and have successfully attacked police stations and forced businesses and schools to close. President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva stated in a 2003 interview with foreign correspondents. The policy is a matter of national sovereignty and security. Some pilots of drug running aircraft felt so confidently immune from retribution as to make obscene gestures at pursuing Brazilian air force pilots. The constitutionality of the law has been questioned under Brazil 's prohibition of the death penalty as punishment for criminal acts. Some legal experts and other commentators stated that contrary to government claims the Statute amounts to a de facto execution of drug traffickers. The daily newspaper O Estado de Sao Paolo stated in an editorial the week of 20040718-20040824 the extreme measure raises ethical and juridical problems exceeding any potential benefits. The penalty will be applied extrajudicially by administrative decision of the Commander of the Air Force. This person will gain life and death power over crew members and passengers of irregular flights. In 2002 Brazil inaugurated the 1.4 billion dollar SIVAM radar system allowing the government to monitor air activity throughout the expansive Amazon region for the first time. The system uses American technology. Illegal Flights initially declined 30 percent due to trafficker 's concerns about improved tracking capabilities but subsequently reaccelerated. Brazil recorded 4128 unauthorized flights in 2003. Some of these flights were innocent violations by ranchers in the Amazon flying between plantations. Viegas stated that there was a significant increase in deliberate violations of Brazilian airspace apparently by drug smugglers realizing that the government was incapable of retaliation. 20010400 Rio de Janeiro 's most notorious drug boss Fernandinho Beira Mar was captured in Colombia in a guns for drugs pipeline involving left wing guerrillas. Brazil 's northern Amazon corridor has become an increasingly busy and essential route in the global drug trade and is used for smuggling arms gold and diamonds. Reportedly one of the most important drug and gun smuggling routes in supplying Europe with cocaine runs from Colombia across the northern tier of the Amazon to Suriname. Colombia is the only country that currently has a policy of targeting drug trafficking aircraft. Colombia is the source of much of the cocaine and heroin sold in the United States. 