Media reports stated on 10 October 2004 that Vietnamese and German officials have pledged to further Vietnamese and German relations in such fields as investment trade and technology and to support each other in the United Nations UN. German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder attended the 5th Asia Europe Meeting summit in Hanoi on 8 October 2004 and 9 October 2004. During separate talks and meetings with Schroeder held on 9 October 2004 Vietnamese leaders stated that the Vietnamese government supports the German government 's bid for a permanent seat in the UN Security Council and wants to strengthen Vietnamese relations with Germany. Vietnamese Prime Minister Phan Van Khai stated that the visit by Schroeder is important to the Vietnam German relationship and the closer cooperation between the 2 continents. Vietnamese and German officials signed 5 documents on financial technical and business cooperation totaling over 260 million US dollars. The documents cover financial cooperation for 2 stages in the 2003-2005 period and the purchase of 16 locomotives for the Vietnam Railway Corporation and equipment for a local cement plant. Vietnamese State President Tran Duc Luong stated in a meeting with Schroeder that the Vietnamese Government would like to receive more technology transfer and experience from Germany and that Vietnam is developing under the industrialization process. Schroeder stated that German officials attach great importance to Vietnam in an attempt to strengthen bilateral ties. The German Government supports the Vietnamese government 's bid for a non permanent membership of the UN Security Council in the 2008-2009 term and encourages small and medium sized German enterprises to do business with Vietnam. The German government offered the Vietnamese government official development assistance worth more than 480 million dollars in the 1990-2003 period primarily for poverty reduction agriculture development healthcare and economic reforms. The Vietnam Germany trade volume rose 7.7 percent in 2003 to reach 1.4 billion dollars of which 815.4 million dollars came from Vietnamese exports. 